\chapter{How to download and install}

In this chapter you will learn how to build your own volume/essay from scratch
by making use of available **essay template** under
[TSUNDOKU](https://github.com/jorgepiloto/tsundoku/) repository. 


Installing dependencies
=======================

This project, as introduced before in the *prologue* runs on cookiecutter for
generating its own source code template based on different selected options from
user. Some of those options are project name, title, subtitle, authors, etc...

The cookiecutter tool is built on top of Python, being hence a library.
Therefore, we will first need to install this famous programming language by
downloading it directly from its official website in
[http://python.org/](http://python.org/). Make sure you follow official
installation guide.

Once this is done, you can simply install the *pip* tool, which enables to
install Python packages uploaded to [PyPI](https://pypi.org/). Again, once you
have successfully installed this command in your local machine, proceed with the
cookiecutter package installation by running: `pip install cookiecutter`.

Another dependency is [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/). This tool main task is to
convert from different files into another format. For example, you can easily
convert from Markdown to HTML or Markdown to Latex and finally render to PDF.
Install the latest stable version of Pandoc by running your favorite package
installer: apt-get, pacman...

Versions used during while building this project:

* Python 3.8.4
* cookiecutter 1.7.2
* pandoc 2.10.1


Generating desired volume from template
=======================================

You will need to download the `essay_template.zip` directory from the official
releases section of the [TSUNDOKU](https://github.com/jorgepiloto/tsundoku/)
repository. Then, you can simply execute the `cookiecutter
/path/to/essay_template.zip` and several questions regarding customization will
be prompted to you. Finally, a project folder will have been created in your
present working directory.

This new folder contains all necessary files for you to write your already
customized (or "riced" in software jargon) project. It contains several folders,
each one with a particular purpose.

The src/ folder
---------------

This directory holds all text content files in Markdown format. It also ships
with the `prologue.tex` one, which enables you to write this particular part of
the essay.

The fig/ folder
---------------

The name advises its purpose: it just simply holds any kind of figure, drawing
or illustration you want to place within your text. This template assumes all
figures to be centered: **no floating images are possible either recommended**.
I used to be a big fan of floating figures but this is a bad practice since it
depends on text content and can lead to annoying failures while developing content.

In order to add your images, simply follow Markdown syntax. You can also
control your figure size by adding a percentage with at the end of the path:
`![Your image caption](path/to/your/file)`. It is not required to add the `fig/`
word to actual image path! This template has already been configured with that
purpose.

![A beautiful wolf illustration](wolf.jpg){width=25%}


Other files
-----------

The `toctree` name means `table of contents`. You will need to add your desired
filenames to this one in desired order.

On the other hand, the `template.tex` file controls all necessary LaTeX
variables such us used packages or defined commands. You can modify this file as
you wish to increase customization capabilities.

Finally, a Makefile automation file is also provided to execute particular
commands and task in an easy way. This file lets you render a final PDF file by
simply running in your command line the `make` command.
